# Game-On
Game On: Grooming Black Youth for Leadership Excellence Using Video Gaming

A University of South Florida research task force working to address racial issues and attitudes on a local, national and global scale has selected 23 projects exploring a wide range of issues in systemic inequality, economic and health disparities, Black history and contemporary challenges for funding.

The USF Research Task Force on Understanding and Addressing Blackness and Anti-Black Racism in our Local, National and International Communities, which was first announced by the university in July, selected the projects as a first-of-its-kind initiative designed to create deeper understanding of complex issues while forging solutions and productive community partnerships. The effort was prompted by several factors, including the long-standing issues of racism and institutional violence brought to the forefront by the recent deaths of Black men, women and children due to excessive force from law enforcement, the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on the nation’s Black communities and other concerns.

Projects spanning eight USF colleges and all three campuses in Tampa, St. Petersburg and Sarasota-Manatee will be part of the year-long effort funded through $500,000 provided by the Office of the Provost and USF Research & Innovation. The Florida High Tech Corridor Council also is supporting the effort.

The projects include a series of efforts within the Tampa Bay region to address systemic issues in education, health care, economic inclusion and identity, while other projects will take USF researchers to as far away as Brazil and South Africa to examine those same issues.

Our selected project, Game On: Grooming Black Youth for Leadership Excellence Using Video Gaming, is led by Drs. Sylvia Thomas (PI), Tempestt Neal (Co-PI), Denise Davis-Cotton (Co-PI), Giti Javidi (Co-PI), and Kelly Cowart (Co-PI).

## Problem Statement and Project Objectives:
Black people are drastically under-represented in executive leadership positions. They comprise 2-5.3% of technology executives, 1% of Fortune 500 CEOs, and 0-3.2% of NFL CEOs/Sr. Managers. Barriers to advancement at this level are largely invisible. Yet, they exist in the form of systemic racial challenges, such as lack of access to training, mentoring, and promotional opportunities. This project recognizes the nexus between engineering, computer science, business, and arts, and highlights the shared attributes of these disciplines to prepare Black youth for leadership positions. By leveraging students’ interest in video gaming, the project aims to change the trajectory of Black youth by opening pathways to entry and creating an active pipeline to leadership. Therefore, the goal of this project is to study the leadership characteristics of professional executives, including conscious and unconscious bias behaviors, to establish the foundation to implement an AI video game sports module based on their real-life experience via an online, anonymous survey and a one-on-one semi-structured interviews with national leaders and executives. Our survey and interviews consists of multiple choice and open-ended questions. Hired research assistants were responsible for distributing the survey, collecting results, analyzing survey data, and preparing a final manuscript discussing these results. 
